2024 results (#134)
geeksblabla/stateofdev.ma: results/2024/sections/profile.mdx

---
title: Profile
position: 2
---

# Profile

> The objective of this first section is to get insights into the profile and the skills of the people working in Software Engineering in Morocco. The majority of the people that answered the survey are men. Also, the majority of the respondents are junior developers with less than 3 years of experience and most of them are living in Morocco with plans to work abroad in the next 2 years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The objective of this first section is to get insights into the profile and the skills of the people working in Software Engineering in Morocco and abroad. The majority of the people that answered the survey are men. Also, the majority of the respondents are junior developers with less than 3 years of experience and most of them are living in Morocco with plans to work abroad in the next 2 years.
```

## Gender

> As can be seen, the results are very similar to previous years, where the majority of the respondents are men.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the presence of women in the IT sectors is slightly increasing each year, it is still highly dominated by men.
```

<Chart id="profile-q-0" pie title={false} />

## Age

> The majority of respondents are aged 18-24, mainly fresh graduates, junior developers, and last-year students. The second largest group includes individuals aged 25-34, with around 70 respondents being 35 years old or older.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The majority of respondents is aged between 18 and 34 years old, indicating a huge workforce of junior to mid-level individuals and thus perhaps a higher demand for entry level and intermediate level jobs.
```

<Chart id="profile-q-1" title={false} />

## Location

Half of the people who filled out the survey are located in Casablanca-Settat or Rabat-Salé-Kénitra. Only 10% of respondents live abroad in Europe, the US, or other countries.

<Chart id="profile-q-2" title={false} />

## Roles

> Almost half of all respondents qualify themselves full-stack developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More than half of the respondents qualify themselves as developers in general: whether it is web (front-end and/or back-end), mobile, game or embeded development.
After developers, the second place is held by data-related roles.
Other technical positions, management and academical roles are much less represented.
```

<Chart id="profile-q-3" title={false} />

## Highest degree

> The results are very similar to last year's results, The majority of the respondents have an equivalent of a Master's degree. Followed by people who took 2/3-year training after their high school degree (BAC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most respondents have a degree of some form (from a BAC+2 to a BAC+8).
There is however a significant portion of respondents which consider themselves self-taught.
```

<Chart id="profile-q-4" pie title={false} />

## Years coding professionally

> Like previous years, more people have been coding for 1 to 2 years, followed by those with less than a year of coding experience.

Reviewer: More than half of the respondents have 2 years or less of coding experience in a professional scenario.

> Like previous years, more people have been coding for 1 to 2 years, followed by those with less than a year of coding experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to previous years, most participants have less than 2 years of coding experience in a professional context.
```

<Chart id="profile-q-5" title={false} />

## Coding as a hobby

Coding is a hobby for the majority of the developers who participate in the survey.

<Chart id="profile-q-6" title={false} />

## Plans to work abroad

> 40% of the people who answered this question have plans to work outside Morocco in the next two years.

Reviewer: While slightly than half of participants are quite hesitant or not willing to work abroad, many of them have plans to move in the coming 1 to 2 years.

> 40% of the people who answered this question have plans to work outside Morocco in the next two years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While slightly than half of participants are quite hesitant or not willing to work abroad, many of them have plans to move in the coming 1 to 2 years.
```

<Tabs>
  <TabItem title="2024">
    <Chart
      id="profile-q-7"
      year={2024}
      condition={(v) => v["profile-q-7"] !== 3}
      title={false}
    />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem title="2023">
    <Chart
      id="profile-q-7"
      year={2023}
      condition={(v) => v["profile-q-7"] !== 3}
      title={false}
    />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem title="2022">
    <Chart
      id="profile-q-7"
      year={2022}
      condition={(v) => v["profile-q-7"] !== 3}
      title={false}
    />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem title="2021">
    <Chart
      id="profile-q-7"
      condition={(v) => v["profile-q-7"] !== 3}
      year={2021}
      title={false}
    />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Plans to come back to Morocco

> Only 27% of people working abroad are not willing to come back to Morocco; other respondents either have plans or are still hesitating to return.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the moroccan workforce abroad is doubting or not at all considering coming back to Morocco.
```

## Years coding professionally

Similarly to previous years, most participants have less than 2 years of coding experience in a professional context.

<Chart id="profile-q-5" title={false} />

## Coding as a hobby

Coding is a hobby for the majority of the developers who participate in the survey.

<Chart id="profile-q-6" title={false} />

## Plans to work abroad

While slightly than half of participants are quite hesitant or not willing to work abroad, many of them have plans to move in the coming 1 to 2 years.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem title="2024">
    <Chart
      id="profile-q-7"
      year={2024}
      condition={(v) => v["profile-q-7"] !== 3}
      title={false}
    />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem title="2023">
    <Chart
      id="profile-q-7"
      year={2023}
      condition={(v) => v["profile-q-7"] !== 3}
      title={false}
    />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem title="2022">
    <Chart
      id="profile-q-7"
      year={2022}
      condition={(v) => v["profile-q-7"] !== 3}
      title={false}
    />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem title="2021">
    <Chart
      id="profile-q-7"
      condition={(v) => v["profile-q-7"] !== 3}
      year={2021}
      title={false}
    />
  </TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: - [ ] Need to check why "currently working abroad" renders 0%

Author: I fixed it by adding an option to the chart component that allows for hiding options with a total of 0.
